---
layout: post
tagline: Interested, or Obsessed.
categories: Living,Thoughts
--- 
I have a huge problem with interests turning themselves into obsessions. It's a part of my Autism, but it is a problem none the less. As an example, when I turned nine years old, I started playing a Trading Card Game called Magic the Gathering. I loved it. I loved sorting the cards, playing with the cards, and above all else, coming up with deck ideas using "fringe" cards that no-one would usually consider useful. However, over the course of a few years the hobby turned into a destructive force. I started failing school, I didn't practice any of my instruments or take care of my personal hygiene. It became my entire world. These little pieces of cardboard with pictures and text. My whole life revolved around them. 

Eventually, it controlled me. I no longer had self control. I ended up being jealous of a friend, the son of my parents' friends. He had all the cool cards, while I was stuck with weak ones because I didn't have a job. So I stole them. I walked into his room one night, picked up his prized deck, pocketed it, and walked away. At the time, I didn't think twice. It was only when he's parents were talking to my parents about how their son had been so angry and frustrated that he punched a whole into the wall of his room. I tried to stay out of the conversation, afraid I'd say something. None the less, Mum already suspected me. I was in big trouble. The result was all my cards, and Mum and Dad's, being given to their son, and I was banned from playing Trading Card Games. For ever. 

Fast forward five years, and I started again. I had learned what I did was wrong. This time, I even had a steady flow of income, thanks to working thirty hours a week at my job. So I wasn't worried about not having cards. I could afford them surely. Wrong. After six months, I had to pay some bills. Only I couldn't. I had been out of work for six weeks, due to the boss forcing me to take my first holiday since I started three years earlier. So I had no income. When my Mum decided to look at my savings account to get some money for a couple of phone bills I had not paid yet, she was greeted by a balance of $0. The once might $500 emergency savings account was down to nothing. When she went over the spending, she realised it was the Trading Card obsession. I had spent, in six weeks, over $500 on Trading Cards. She confronted me, and after yelling, and me crying and realising that it was like a drug for me, we mutually agreed that I would never, in my life, play Trading Cards again. 
But when does an interest, or hobby, become an obsession? Worse still, what if it becomes an addiction? For myself, and what I imagine would be many other autistic people in the world, I have an addictive personality. Something that catches my interest can very easily become an obsession, and later an addiction. It sucks. Honestly it really does. I love playing video games, and Trading Cards, but for the sake of my well being, I can not afford to play either. I've tried to control them. I tried everything from limiting the amount of time, to even limiting what areas of the house I can play them. But in the end, the only thing that would work was to go cold turkey. 
As an autistic person, I couldn't do it alone. I have problems committing to things, so when it came to making that decision to go cold turkey from video games or Trading Cards, I turned to my parents and friends for support. I was honest with them. I did not __want__ to have them in my life anymore. They acknowledged that. Now, whenever I have the urge to buy a deck of Trading Cards (I still have the urges at times) the first thing I do is tell someone in my support network. They nicely remind me of what Trading Cards did to me, and ask me to really think is it worth it. 
I always answer no. 
To be quite honest, I'm much happier without those addictions in my life. I've achieved many things. I've started down the road to minimalist living, I've organised my life, and I've been able to recover from severe depression. All without Trading Cards or video games. So if you notice that someone in your life is becoming obsessed with something, keep a close eye on them. That obsession, which may seem harmless to begin with, can easily turn into a dominating addiction. And that person, whether they're autistic or not, will probably need your help to overcome it.
