---
layout: post
title: Depression
tagline: The Ugly Beast Part 1
categories: life
---
In August of 2014, I was diagnosed with severe depression.  Almost immediately I was taken to the hospital in a town north of here called Rockhampton.  For the weekend, I was in the public hospital's psychiatric ward, until I was cleared for entry into the private ward.  Depression is something I didn't plan on, yet it has caused my life to come to a screeching halt for about seven to eight months.

My depression was triggered by the fact that I overworked myself.  I was studying High School Teaching, so I spent one day a week at a school doing professional practice, four days a week studying, one afternoon tutoring privately, one morning tutoring as a volunteer, and to top it all off I worked twelve to fifteen hours a week at my casual job.  Despite all of this, I still wanted to work more.  Now that I look back on it, it was probably because I was trying to distract myself.

But why is depression such an ugly beast?  Well as is the case with myself, it can cause your life to screech to a halt until you recover.  I've spent the last eight months recovering.  This means I've had no income, I have not been able to return to university, and for the first couple of months I couldn't leave the house.  My life sucked, but in spite of it all, I wanted to get through it.

There are a few tell tale signs that someone is experiencing depression.  Note, however, that not all the signs are present in all people, and there may even be some signs that I don't mention.  The signs I do mention are the one's I am told tipped off people that I was experiencing depression.  The first one is becoming reclusive.  As my depression got worse, and even before anyone knew that is what it was, I became very reclusive.  I spent all my time in my own room, unless I absolutely __had__ to leave.  Even if I did, I did the best I could to not have to interact with people.  Believe me, it was hard.  My casual job was as a sales assistant at a local department store.  I was also in charge of the Photo Processing Center, which meant, thankfully, I quite often had to lock myself in the room with the printers to fix them.  However, when on the shop floor, I stayed well out of the way of everyone I could.  I relished when they would ask me to look after gardening at seven o'clock at night.  It meant I would not have to deal with any customers, and that I could be alone.

It got worse.  Much worse.  Whenever I went to the university to study, I would lock myself in one of the private cubicles and not come out.  I would even wait until everyone else had already had lunch so that I could be alone in the common room.  I'm sure people noticed my actions, but at the time I was sure no-one paid any attention to me.  Which brings us to another sign: unwarranted aggression.  I believed that no-one even noticed me, and this made me angry.  __VERY__ angry.  So angry that I went out of my way to be rude and hurt others.  In fact, I got so used to this idea that one day when a customer at work was unusually nice for no reason, I literally wanted to rip her head off.  "What was is this person doing being nice?  No-one should ever be nice to me, I don't deserve it!"  That is what I was thinking.  Luckily I just smiled, then when she was gone locked myself in with the printer to give it a good clean while I calmed down.  But it wasn't just this that caused issues.  Simple things, like Mum asking me to get milk because she forgot and had had a hard day at work.  That would send me off the edge.  "Why on earth should I run around for you?  Don't you think I have better things to do?"  Problem was, I didn't.  In fact, all I wanted to do was play video games.

Which was another warning sign.  About eight months earlier, I had decided to give up gaming for good.  However, as my depression grew, I started playing more and more games.  I knew I shouldn't have played them, but it was the only thing I was good at doing.  Or so I thought.  In fact, I have been told that regressing into old addictions is a sign of depression. Even now, eight months after being in hospital, that addiction is plaguing me.  Because I spent six months playing games while recovering, I'm now finding it increasingly difficult to give them up again.  All because of depression.

_TO BE CONTINUED._
